.. _release_1.34:

fedpkg 1.34 Release Notes
=========================

Released on *July 19, 2018*

This release requires ``rpkg >= 1.55``.

Python compatibility
--------------------

fedpkg works with Python 2.6, 2.7 and 3.6.

What's new in fedpkg 1.34
-------------------------

OIDC authentication is enabled via HTTPS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

OIDC authentication is enabled to let you push local changes to dist-git via
HTTPS. That means you don't have to request SSH permission to contribute to
a package.

Command ``override`` to operate Bodhi update
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This new command has two subcommands to create and extend expiration
individually.

An update could be created from a repository by generating build NVR from
current active release branch, or outside a repository by providing the NVR
explicitly.

To create an update inside a repository, ensure switch to a release branch,
e.g. f28::

  fedpkg override create

To create an update outside a repository::

  fedpkg override create foo-0.1-1.fc28

By default, update created from fedpkg has 7 days to be alive. ``--duration``
could be used to change this default number of days.

The expiration date of created update could be expanded by subcommand
``extend``::

  fedpkg override extend 5 foo-0.1-1.fc28

This command extends update of build ``foo-0.1-1.fc28`` by 5 days.

Please refer to man page for details.

.. note::

  fedpkg works with ``bodhi-client >= 2.0`` only.

Pass repository name to ``request-repo`` explicitly
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Previously the new repository name, aka the package, module, or container name,
to be requested is specified by a global option ``--module-name`` (which is
deprecated already since rpkg-1.55). There were several issues reported for
that because it would confuse packagers easily with the word "module". To Avoid
the confusion, command ``request-repo`` has a new argument name to specify
repository name for clarity and optional ``--namespace`` option to indicate
namespace for the repository.

Here is an example to request a RPM package ``foo`` with package review bug ID
``123456``::

  fedpkg request-repo foo 123456

Another example to request a module ``bar``::

  fedpkg request-repo --namespace modules bar

.. warning::

  Original form ``fedpkg --module-name foo request-repo`` is not supported.
  Please switch to the new command form.

Optional repository name and namespace to ``request-branch``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Command ``request-branch`` now has its own option ``--repo`` and
``--namespace`` to make it easy to use and avoid any potential confusion.
You can request a branch like this way::

  fedpkg request-branch --repo foo f28

If ``--namespace`` is not specified, it defaults to ``rpms``. In order to
request a branch for non-RPM stuff, it accepts specific dist-git namespace like
namespace option in other commands. Here is an example to request a branch for
a module::

  fedpkg request-branch --repo bar --namespace modules 10

.. note::

  Global option ``--name`` and ``--namespace`` are usable for
  ``request-branch``. However, it is recommended to use new options instead for
  clarity.

Change Logs
-----------

* Get csrf token properly when retry bodhi API call (cqi)
* Accept old config with module instead of repo (lsedlar)
* Add option --namespace to command request-branch (cqi)
* Add argument name and option --namespace to request-repo - `#193`_ `#200`_ (cqi)
* Add explicit option --repo for request-branch - `#244`_ (cqi)
* Do not use deprecated option module-name (cqi)
* Remove compatible code with EL5 in bash completion (cqi)
* Handle Bodhi login automatically (cqi)
* Refine command override create (cqi)
* request-repo: Fix API token help text - `#232`_ (tmz)
* Use base_module in clone_config - `#230`_ (tmz)
* Extend override by number of days or specific date - `#67`_ (cqi)
* Use refactored man from pyrpkg (puiterwijk)
* Add new command for creating override in Bodhi - `#92`_ (cqi)
* Also remove bodhi url from config (cqi)
* Check bodhi version earlier (cqi)
* Drop support of bodhi-client 0.9 - `#223`_ (cqi)
* Use custom ArgumentParser from pyrpkg.cli (jkucera)
* Add OIDC config (puiterwijk)
* Fix argparse error in Python 3 - `#221`_ (cqi)

.. _`#67`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/67
.. _`#92`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/92
.. _`#193`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/193
.. _`#200`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/200
.. _`#221`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/221
.. _`#223`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/223
.. _`#230`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/230
.. _`#232`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/232
.. _`#244`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/244
