.. _release_1.35:

fedpkg 1.35 Release Notes
=========================

Released on *August 21, 2018*

This release requires ``rpkg >= 1.56``.

Python compatibility
--------------------

fedpkg works with Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.6 and 3.7.

What's new in fedpkg 1.35
-------------------------

New command ``releases-info``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``releases-info`` is helpful for packagers to know current active
Fedora or EPEL rleases, or both. For example to show active Fedora
releases::

  fedpkg releases-info --fedora

This command could run anywhere from local system. It's not necessary
inside a package repository.

Enable Greenwave policy validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``rpkg-1.56`` supports to validate Greenwave policy for build RPM
packages and containers. This fedpkg version enables it.

Allow to create Bodhi update with command line options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``update`` command now has a set of options that allow package
maintainers to create Bodhi update from command line directly without
entering the template editor to editor update details.

For example to create a bugfix update::

  fedpkg update --type bugfix --notes "Fix bug xxx"

You could also pass multiple lines of notes to ``--notes``.

Please note that, most of command line arguments have default value
that is same as the one in the template. If ``--type`` or ``--notes``
is omitted, template editor is still displayed to let packagers
confirm and edit update details before proceeding creation.

.. warning::

   Behavior to abort update creation process is changed. Originally,
   nothing changed in template editor will stop proceeding
   creation. Since this new version, you could terminate creation
   process by two ways, one is to commented out all lines, and another
   one is just remove all lines.

Do not delete ``bodhi.template`` if fail to create update
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There could be some reasons that causes update creation fails. Once it
happens, ``bodhi.template.last`` is saved and includes what you
entered via command line arguments or edited in template editor. This
behavior gives packagers opportunity to get data back and save work
effort for next try.

Change Logs
-----------

* Reserve last bodhi template on error - `rhbz#1467897`_ (cqi)
* New command releases-info - `#247`_ (cqi)
* Fix a test for request-repo command (cqi)
* New option to request a repo without an initial commit - `#215`_ (cqi)
* Add --shell to bash completion for mockbuild (cqi)
* Greenwave conf and support for gating validation (gnaponie)
* Allow to create update directly with CLI options - `#93`_  `rhbz#1007157`_ (cqi)
* Add more tests for utils (cqi)
* Rewrite method to create bodhi update - `rhbz#1492480`_ (cqi)
* Mock fedora.client.OpenIdBaseClient._load_cookies (cqi)
* Do not use configparser.SafeConfigParser in tests (cqi)
* Fix test_retire to use unittest2 in el6 (cqi)
* Submit builds from stream branch (cqi)
* The create new project is not needed for packager (pingou)
* Add py37 testenv (cqi)
* Set PYCURL_SSL_LIBRARY directly for installing pycurl (cqi)
* Fix flake8 errors and typo in tests (cqi)
* Add tests for some commands (cqi)
* Add tests for utils.py (cqi)
* Convert test case for utils.py as normal test case (cqi)
* Add some tests for BugzillaClient (cqi)
* Fix TypeError raised from override create command - `#256`_ (cqi)
* Add missing command and options in bash completion (cqi)

.. _`#93`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/93
.. _`#215`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/215
.. _`#247`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/247
.. _`#256`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/256
.. _`rhbz#1007157`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1007157
.. _`rhbz#1467897`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1467897
.. _`rhbz#1492480`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1492480
