.. _release_1.38:

fedpkg 1.38 Release Notes
=========================

Released on *March 1, 2020*

This release requires ``rpkg >= 1.59-5``.

Python compatibility
--------------------

fedpkg works with Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.6 and 3.7.

What's new in fedpkg 1.38
-------------------------

Create fork of the active repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Adds new command ``fedpkg fork`` that call API method which forks
active repository for the given (or active) user and creates remote
record in git configuration.

.. code-block:: ini

    [fedpkg.distgit]
    apibaseurl = https://src.fedoraproject.org
    token = <GENERATED_TOKEN>

New token can be regerated here:
https://src.fedoraproject.org/settings#nav-api-tab
At least `"Fork a project"` ACL have to be selected during the process.

Warning: this new token is different to the `Pagure`_ token.

.. _`Pagure`: https://pagure.io/settings#nav-api-tab

Clone config customization for namespaces
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After the ``clone`` operation, a git config is updated with `git-bz`
config values. Now, these values can be customized based on the
namespace of the cloned repository. Each namespace has its own
key `clone_config_<namespace>` in config section. For namespaces,
that missing this config ('tests' namespace is a good example),
any of these values aren't updated.

A repository has to be namespaced (``distgit_namespaced = True``)
for the config to be applied.

Functional change is part of the rpkg, and needs to be released
separately.

.. code-block:: ini

    [fedpkg]
    clone_config_rpms =
      bz.default-tracker bugzilla.redhat.com
      bz.default-product Fedora
      bz.default-version rawhide
      bz.default-component %(repo)s
      sendemail.to %(repo)s-owner@fedoraproject.org
    clone_config_modules =
      bz.default-tracker bugzilla.redhat.com
      bz.default-product Fedora Modules
      bz.default-version rawhide
      bz.default-component %(repo)s
      sendemail.to module-%(repo)s-owner@fedoraproject.org
    clone_config_container =
      bz.default-tracker bugzilla.redhat.com
      bz.default-product Fedora Container Images
      bz.default-version rawhide
      bz.default-component %(repo)s
      sendemail.to container-%(repo)s-owner@fedoraproject.org

Demo video `here <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1W\_aT\_L0xvKyFjRg9V0-tb8NPT7ZlqsDl>`_

verrel command on master asks Koji first
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``fedpkg verrel`` on master branch could return wrong result in some
cases. Now running order is: asks active Koji session, asks anonymous
Koji session and then if there is still no result, tries to determine
release offline. Fedpkg ability to work offline is still desirable.

Block retiring in released branches
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It checks Fedora release state and it restricts retiring operation
for other states than `pending`. States are obtained from service here:
https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/releases/<release_name>
Unknown releases are allowed to be retired.

Demo video `here <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1fnb1dfijWU1HxAPaHX9H87y2f8pjRAYS>`_

Removes check of bodhi-client version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Modification of this part of the code is not needed when a new major
version of Bodhi is released (if there are no incompatibilities with
previous Bodhi version).

This approach was chosen instead of bumping the version every time there
is a Bodhi major release.

epel8 & epel8-playground support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Functionality regarding epel includes:

* Add epel*-playground into rpmdefines
* Allow epel*-playground requests for epel8 and newer
* Support for epel*-playground branch requests
* Use package.cfg for epel8+ branches
* Change dist tag for epel8-playground - Change dist tag for branch epel8-playground to be the same like in Koji.

`request-tests-repo` add branch into ticket body
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Add fixed branch `master` into ticket body. It should prevent releng
ticket being marked as invalid.

Clarify request-branch 'service levels' argument
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Description of ``request-branch`` command wasn't clear for ``--sl`` argument
and was modified. ``--sl`` argument allows multiple values and therefore
only positional argument 'branch' shouldn't be placed at the end of
line.

Mock requests in all tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Without this the test do network operations and fail when run with no
network access.

Resolve Jenkins unittests failing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Disabling Jenkins unittests for Python2.6, because it is not supported
by the Jenkins system anymore. To continue running unittests I also
had to change the approach to install dependent libraries - not to use
sitepackages. Libraries that are needed are installed by pip directly.
It leads to skipping of some tests that require bodhi-client.

New options for bodhi template
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Options include ``reqire_testcases`` and ``require_bugs``.

Check nvr before build
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When building for `epel8`, it is also triggered `epel8-playground`
build. nvr have to be checked whether the build is already built.
There was the check, but it queried different nvr. Now build will
be terminated when there is the same nvr present in Koji.

utils: fix whitespace in Pagure error message
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Prior to this change, Python would concatenate the two quoted strings
together without a space, and fedpkg's error message would read

  `... to set atoken in your user configuration.`

Add a space between `a` and `token`.

Line up descriptions for better code readability
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Multi-line descriptions of fedpkg commands were lined up to
the beginning of the line and it was not so readable. textwrap.dedent
was used to line descriptions up like normal string literals.

Width of the description column was originally 70 characters, with
this change you need to add a fixed number of spaces
on the beginning.

Coding style changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Sorting of imports
* Avoid warning about invalid escape with python3.8
* linux_distribution import moved

Other small fixes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* bash completion: update with side tag commands, added --fail-fast
* Bump check for bodhi client version 4
* Unittests for new features and some older functionality as well.
* git-changelog: Fix running on Python 3 and unify the script with rpkg.

Change Logs
-----------

* Removes check of bodhi-client version - `rhbz#1796972`_ (onosek)
* Clone config customization for namespaces - `#231`_ (onosek)
* Update bash completion with side tag commands (lsedlar)
* add --fail-fast to bash-completion (cheese)
* Improve coding style by sorting imports (onosek)
* Repair tests for previous commits (onosek)
* Create fork of the active repository - `#276`_ (onosek)
* request-tests-repo: add branch into ticket body - `#359`_ (onosek)
* verrel command on master asks Koji first - `#357`_ (onosek)
* Check nvr before build - `#356`_ (onosek)
* Change dist tag for epel8-playground (onosek)
* Add test for retiring on archived release (lsedlar)
* Mock requests in all tests (lsedlar)
* Line up descriptions for better code readability (onosek)
* Clarify request-branch 'service levels' argument - `#283`_ (onosek)
* Resolve Jenkins unittests failing (onosek)
* utils: fix whitespace in Pagure error message (kdreyer)
* New options for bodhi template - `#459`_ (onosek)
* Block retiring in released branches - `#337`_ (onosek)
* Use package.cfg for epel8+ branches - `#345`_ (mboddu)
* Add epel*-playground into rpmdefines (smooge)
* linux_distribution import moved (onosek)
* Unittests for epel*-playground branch requests (onosek)
* Allow epel*-playground requests for epel8 and newer (onosek)
* Support for epel*-playground branch requests - `#334`_ (mboddu)
* git-changelog: Fix running on Python 3 (onosek)
* Avoid warning about invalid escape with python3.8 (zbyszek)
* Tests for update stable karma - `#321`_ (cqi)
* Bump check for bodhi client - `#330`_ (lsedlar)
* Ignore files in a cloned repository - patterns update (onosek)

.. _`rhbz#1796972`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1796972
.. _`#231`: https://pagure.io/fedpkg/issue/231
.. _`#276`: https://pagure.io/fedpkg/issue/276
.. _`#359`: https://pagure.io/fedpkg/issue/359
.. _`#357`: https://pagure.io/fedpkg/issue/357
.. _`#356`: https://pagure.io/fedpkg/issue/356
.. _`#283`: https://pagure.io/fedpkg/issue/283
.. _`#459`: https://pagure.io/rpkg/issue/459
.. _`#337`: https://pagure.io/fedpkg/issue/337
.. _`#345`: https://pagure.io/fedpkg/issue/345
.. _`#334`: https://pagure.io/fedpkg/issue/334
.. _`#321`: https://pagure.io/fedpkg/issue/321
.. _`#330`: https://pagure.io/fedpkg/issue/330


